One of the hardest parts about and this is
kind of just in general for being a PM and
probably even just working in an office
environments is sometimes it's just
really hard to get started.
This is hard about writing docs.
This is but particularly roadmaps that
this is where I really struggle with them,
which is why I put this in this section.
Where do I start?
And the answer is just, just start
[LAUGH] my secret hack to this and
like it's it works with
like doing courses and
writing course materials and
planning and writing product specs.
Generally when I'm thinking about my
roadmap, I have some idea in my head.
I have one idea in my head that like I'm
really kind of just hyper focusing on.
And I just start there which is usually
in the middle somewhere, right?
Usually I have like one project
that I'm really excited about.
And I'm really decided to just like,
get on this project.
I will start my roadmap by just writing
out the projects that are that I'm
pumped about.
And pretty soon once I was like
unblocked from that, getting started,
generally the rest of stuff for
me just kind of starts to flow out.
So that, I don't know.
I shared that tip just because
it really helps me and
it's really applicable to me
when I'm in planning season.
But just start and
start with what's in your head.
There's some catharsis in just getting
stuff out of your head and onto paper.
And I'll also say I almost always
delete the first thing I write and
that's really okay as well.
I'll write something down and then I'll
write the rest of the document and
realize this is actually not
the format that I wanted from it or
I thought of something better.
I'm gonna delete that.
But I think there's something probably
physiological about just typing and
activating a different part of your brain
that gets stuff flowing out better.
Yeah, you just wanna get
the wheels turned in there.
This was another thing that
intimidates a lot of PMs.
Most of your roadmap
isn't all of your ideas.
You are not expected to
be the all-idea person.
I dare say that at a certain organization
size most of the ideas shouldn't be yours.
It should be a reflection of
what your users are telling you,
what your metrics are telling you,
what your team is telling you,
what your customer facing
organization people are telling you.
Some of them should be your ideas or
probably ideas.
Some of them should be your bets, right
like I'm making a bet that I think ChatGPT
things probably here to stay, right?
And so we're gonna do some stuff on that.
But yeah being a PM doesn't mean
coming up with all the ideas.
It does mean being the shepherd
of all the ideas, right?
And generally it means,
you are taking other people's ideas and
then you become the owner of them and
then you have to develop them and
go further with them, right?
It does mean that but it doesn't
mean you are like having to write
down all of the work that you're
gonna do from your own brain.
So like I sat down with my recent
roadmap and I would say 50% of it for
me was ongoing tasks just like ongoing
things that we were trying to get done.
40% either came from my team or
like my greater company organization and
just 10% came from me.
Now, I think if you went back to like some
of the stuff I was doing like on VS Code.
It was much higher me like I think I was
working on like 50% of stuff that came
from me.
And I think at stripe it was
almost entirely stuff that
had come from customers try to do.
I don't necessarily think I worked on any
like any big project that came from my
brain and that doesn't make me sad at all.
I don't care where the ideas come from.
I care that they're good,
Follow the themes.
I like looking at my
colleagues roadmap and
my greater organization not
like all of snowflake but
like in the smaller organize that I'm in
and then see what they're working on.
And if I have,
prior roughly equivalent priority stuff
to work on that aligns with their work.
Some of those synergies can be helpful.
Stripe did a really good job and
actually snowflake does a good job
too of publishing as a company.
Here are themes for this quarter
plan around these kinds of things.
So if you have some of those,
those are good to follow.
This one,
it sounds like a truism kind of is it But
don't say things like
improve web performance.
When are you done
improving web performance?
When is that a done thing?
It's never done, right?
It's a continually, you can always
make it 0.1 second faster, right?
So don't say things that aren't
completable say that like swap
out framework for a new framework.
There's a point where that goes from
being not done to being done, right?
Make them basically a fact that
can be proven or disproven or
a binary statement that is like
this is either true or it is false.
But it should be something
that you can check off that is
a completable Unit of work.
>> When you talk about these completable
quantifiable units of work I've
been given this advice as a contractor
consultant as well it's hard to
get paid when you set
really generic criteria.
Is this of a similar intent that you want
to make sure that your product projects
and the products that you're
trying to bring to completion
are actually considered complete.
And you're trying to influence without
authority that you mentioned yesterday,
would this be a practice of it?
>> Right cuz what's gonna happen is you're
gonna get to the end of your quarter.
Your goal was improve web performance.
And maybe it's like, all right,
we used to take 5.1 and now we take 5.0.
Great, good job everyone, right?
It's also just an infinite bucket of work,
right?
And I don't like infinite bucket of work.
I wanna do something and get done.
Sometimes, let's say that you have
identified that users are having an awful
time on your website and it's because
it's very slow and you don't know why.
My suggestion there is timeboxing and say
we have a two week perf push, right, and
so we're gonna go do this for two weeks.
And either we're gonna discover
what it was and fix it or
we'll come up with an actual
project at the end of that.
But that's what I would plan for.
And that is a completable thing is like
for two weeks we did work on this and
we started it and we finished it and
it's over, right?
But it helps for accountability to you.
It helps for
other people in your organization to
know what you're actually working on.
And it's just good practice as well.
Yeah and honestly it's gonna be good for
your career where you can go back and say,
here's projects that I work on instead
of saying, I improved web performance.
You can say, here's a list of actual
concrete things that I was able to get
done with my team.
The next one here is make long
projects have milestones.
Some of the projects you're gonna take
are year long projects, two year projects,
three year projects.
You could have probably
even longer horizons too.
When you have those things,
break those down into milestones that fit
within whatever your
unit of measurement is.
If it's a quarter, right?
Let's say I'm migrating from SWS to Azure
or something like that I would make every
quarter, like in this quarter I expect to
accomplish this part of the migration.
It's gonna be databases and object caches.
Next one is compute layer,
next one is messaging buses and
the last one is AI services or
something like that.
So that way it's still,
you still end up with completable
packets of work within your quarter.
It makes it reportable,
it makes it alignable.
Those are all good things to have.
Because rather than having this same
thing on your timeline, on your roadmap
every single time you'll end up with
completed projects, which is always good.
So break things down into completable
packets of work if they're too long to fit
inside of a particular quarter or
half year or year or something like that.